are we any closer to preventing a nuclear holocaust? one thought always comes to my mind…what if we lived without that dander hanging over our heads?and you all know what is that danger is. for more than 70 years the world has faced the very real threat of nuclear war.nuclear war is a real and growing threat. the united states and russia have left critical agreements and treaties, while actively planning to add new types of weapons to their arsenals.meanwhile, us nuclear policy remains rooted in the cold war, increasing the risk that nuclear weapons could be used again.it doesn’t have to be this way. with the right policy changes and a commitment to diplomacy, the united states can be a leader in reducing the nuclear threat and we can also help them. but the question arises is what are the activities are being done for the prevention of nuclear holocaust?and they are :pressuring congress to support change,holding the white house accountable through independent research and analysis,increasing public demand for changing nuclear weapon policies.now the question is what can we do to prevent a nuclear holocaust?tell government: don’t fund a nuclear arms race.call for investment in public health and public security, not nuclear weapons.tell government: the united states should never start a nuclear war.urge presidential candidates to make preventing nuclear war a priority. activist resourcesnuclear weapons are extremely strong to show the power of a nation. but no one knows the drawback of this attack between the two countries. for example hiroshima and nagasaki, the realistic bomb blast explained the blood of each people. the crux of my presentation is that the circumstances surrounding nuclear war call for a new level of commitment by the scientific community to reduce the risk of nuclear war. to generate new options for decreasing the risk, we need analytical work by people who know the weaponry and its military uses. but that is far from enough to do the job. we also need scholars who know the superpowers in-depth; people who know other nuclear powers; people who know third-world flashpoints; people who know international relations very broadly; people who know a lot about policy formation and implementation, especially in the superpowers; people who understand human behavior under stress, especially leadership under stress; people who understand negotiation and conflict resolution people and much more. in other words, the relevant knowledge and skills cut right across all the physical, biological, behavioral, social. international physicians for the prevention of nuclear war, world health, british medical association, and the american medical association; others have contributed as well. the central point is that a kind of awakening has occurred in the medical community to the responsibility of addressing the immense nature of the threat to public health. at last, i want to conclude that: “ in a nuclear war, except evil force, no one is the winner. science and humanity become the villain. everyone knows that but the gamblers want to play their cards. be aware of the nuclear gamblers “.i hope that soon the world will be full of love and affection and there will be no place for hate and the wars will be held.blackcoffer insights 21: rutika pagar, c.m.c.s college nashik