continued demand for sustainability the business of business is no longer to do just businessor increase the bottom line to maximize shareholder value. rather, the conceptof business is moving towards a new dimension of sustainable business, thetriple bottom line. people, planet, and profits are the coreideologies that are rooted in sustainable business. sustainability is takeninto account when companies want to create long-term value creation along withstrategies that promote the longevity of the company. as corporateaccountability rises, expectations and need for transparency among stakeholdersincreases therefore companies have started to recognize the need to besustainable to stay alert and alive. businessglobalization that has happened over the previous few decades has made somecompanies more powerful than some national governments, making it easy for themto exploit inexpensive labor, plunder natural resources, causing severe impactsthrough pollution on the natural environment, human health, and biodiversity.unfortunately for them, their horrible past has been catching up with them likein the case of child labor issues of ikea & nike, rana plaza accident inbangladesh affecting zara, h&m and other clothing brands, environmentpollution by bp, shell, exxon mobil etc. with the emergence of internet andsocial media these practices can no longer be covered up and silenced, theworld has become more educated and less tolerant and therefore with everymisdemeanor that is committed brand equity takes a hit. the media is fastpicking up on cover-ups, half-truths, and bad corporate behavior and demandingaccountability and transparency from corporates. therefore to survive, companiesare compelled to adopt sustainability and bring forth the rules for theirsuppliers as well. manyof the irresponsible company practices and disasters that are witnessed in thatlast couple of decades were motivated solely by short-termism- the desirefor instant gratification- and the appeal of short-term performanceincentives. for instance, deferred maintenance and slack leadership were toblame for the 1984 leaks from the pesticide plant union carbide india ltd inbhopal. estimates placed more than half a million casualties from the gasdischarge of the plant. finally, union carbide corporation’s 1989 litigationpayout came out to today’s equivalent of nearly one billion us dollars. anotherexample where the company was forced to shut down operations was coca cola atits plachimada plant in kerala. the local communities faced acute watershortage after the commissioning of the plant and the company authoritiesblatantly ignored the community woes. these businesses stated above didn’trespect stakeholder engagement which ultimately lead to their untimely demise.today’sissues cannot be solved without participation from all stakeholders, andcompanies with influence should be the torchbearers of change. they need toengage with regulators, communities, societies, suppliers, and ngos foreffective and desired outcomes. issues where engagement are required includepopulation growth; global middle-class growth; decline in ecosystems; waterscarcity; food safety; material resource security; higher global energy demand;changes in geographic patterns of energy consumption; and increasing climatechange regulatory interventions.by actively pursuing the triplebottom line, the essential possibilities available are:save expensesby reducing environmental effects; motivateemployees and decreased employee turnover;decrease riskthrough engaging with stakeholders; create areputation by improving environmental effectiveness ;in order for companies to committo sustainability they should have the below objectives in place:strategy alignment and sustainability: management should ensure alignment between the company’s strategy and its sustainability initiatives. sometimes, there is a divergence between the two concepts making sustainability attempts to look fragile and lacking real dedication and prioritization. for example, toyota is well known for hybrid engine development, but less so for decreasing its reliance on rare earth minerals. toyota decreased its dependence on imports and operational risk, thus reducing its economic hazards in the event of price rises.compliance first, then competitive advantage: compliance must be addressed first and foremost by businesses, which often involves laws on waste management, pollution, and energy efficiency as well as human rights and labor accountability. recent reports show that investors are shying away from compliance hazards progressively. reactive to proactive: as a result of a crisis, many of today’s leading sustainability businesses such as nike, coca-cola, telenor, ikea, siemens, and nestlé have stepped up mainly. for instance, in locations like indonesia throughout the 90s, nike confronted boycotts and government anger for abusive labor practices but turned the tide around. it became a pioneer in the establishment of transparency in 2005 by releasing a full list of the factories with which it contracts and a comprehensive 108-page report revealing conditions and payment in its factories. it also recognized huge problems, especially in its factories in south asia. these businesses have all created more proactive sustainability approaches by acknowledging the effect of sustainability in a crisis.quantify,including the company situation:all businesses are struggling to quantify their sustainability investmentreturns. this is a straightforward problem with respect to compliance. transparencyis a precondition for assessing and enhancing sustainability practices. the only way for companies to achieve transparency is throughopen communication with all key stakeholders based on high levels ofinformation disclosure, clarity, and accuracy as well as an openness torecognize faults and improve practices.sustainability -triple bottom line- can drive a company’s achievement beyond shareholder value creation by building corporate shared value at its core and help in addressing social &environmental problems. several investors today use esg metrics to evaluate the ethical effect and sustainability practices of an organization. investors are looking at variables like the carbon footprint of a company, water use, community development efforts, and diversity board before investing. companies have started responding to investors by publishing their annual sustainability reports. research indicates that businesses with elevated esg scores have reduced debt and equity costs and that sustainability projects can contribute to improving economic efficiency while encouraging government assistance. it’s only a matter of time, the flow of sustainability nourishes businesses in achieving holistic development for the environment, people and its profits.blackcoffer insights 12 | sanjana jose varghese | iim lucknow 